What we're going to
do, is we're going
to demonstrate how to open
a socket connection in
Python or Raspberry Pi,
and use this to send something
to a machine through
the socket on the internet.
Now, in this case,
we're going send from
the Raspberry Pi to
the Raspberry Pi, but
that's easy to change.
So you can easily
change the IP address.
That's just convenient
for our example,
but you can just change
the IP address and
the destination
machine would be different.
So we'll use this
Raspberry Pi then.
Now, what I'm running this on
is actually my desktop machine.
What you're seeing recorded
is my desktop machine.
I have my Raspberry Pi sitting
next to me and it's
already plugged in,
but I want to work
from my desktop
because it's easier for
me to record from there.
So I am going to first open
a secure shell terminal.
So I'm going to use this program
PuTTY that I have at the bottom.
I've talked about
this, but is PuTTY.
Now, PuTTY what it'll do is
when I start this thing,
I type in the IP address of
the Raspberry Pi which I
already know and it'll
open up a terminal window,
window that I can type text into.
When I type text
into that window,
it gets sent directly
to my Raspberry Pi,
and my Raspberry Pi processes it,
and when the
Raspberry Pi wants to
send responses to the screen,
it puts it into that
terminal window.
So is as if I was sitting
at the Raspberry Pi itself.
It is just for
convenience sake here.
So I'm going to open a window
to the Raspberry Pi.
I need to open two because I'm
going to send and I'm
going to receive.
So I'll send from one I'll
receive in the other.
So before I actually
open this up, I want to,
just for the sake of the video,
I want to make the font bigger.
So I'm going to do this.
You don't generally
have to do this,
but I'm going in here and
change the appearance,
change the font size,
make it 24 and nice and big.
So now, I'll make the connection.
So I'll type in the IP address
that I have memorized.
Open, so login as
Pi type in the pamphlet.
Yeah there it is.
So now I've got
my window and if I type
a command like ls let's say,
it gives me the directory
on the Raspberry Pi,
because this is connected
directed Raspberry Pi.
So I just want to
shrink that a little
bit. Yeah there we go.
So I'll use this
terminal for sending,
and then I need another
terminal for receiving.
So let me make
another PuTTY window.
Again, I'll just
change the appearance,
bigger font, and type in
the IP address again.
Open that up. Again Pi,
and I've got two.
So now I've got two
terminal windows.
The top one I'm going to
send from the bottom,
one I'm going to
use as a receiver.
The both these
terminal windows are
connected to
the same Raspberry Pi.
So now, in order to
send or receive,
I'm going to need run a client
program in the top window.
That's going to do the sending
and I'll just type
that in Python interactively,
just as you can see it.
But I'm also going to need to run
a server program in
the bottom window
which is just basically
receiving texts and then
printing it on the screen.
So it's pretty simple
server program.
Since it is so simple,
I don't even have
to write in Python.
I could write it in Python,
it's not that big a deal.
But instead, I can use
a utility tool called Netcat
which is a great tool.
Nc is the name of the program.
So Netcat can be used
to send or receive.
In this case, I just
wanted to sit there,
listen on a particular
port number.
We're going to use
a port one, two,
three, four, stuff
taught my head.
We're going to have it sit
there listening on this port,
anything it receives it prints to
the screen, really simple.
So I don't have to do
anything for that,
I just start running it.
So nc dash l to tell it to listen
because it's listening
on a port and
I give the port number,
one, two, three, four.
Now, if you look at
the bottom left terminal,
you'll see that it's
now blocked, right?
There's nothing appearing there.
That's because nobody's
made a connection to it
yet and it's not
receiving anything.
When it does receive something,
it'll appear in that screen.
So now let's go to
the top window and
we want to send some texts
and we're going to
do it in Python,
and I'll type it
interactively in Python.
So let's type Python,
Python3 because
that's what I use.
So at first, we need to
import the socket library.
I'm a slow typer so bear with me.
Import socket prime.
Now, we have to
create the socket.
We have to call the
constructor for the socket.
So I'll call it ms for my socket,
and socket.socket
is the constructor.
So constructor takes
two arguments.
First argument indicates
what protocol we're using.
Now, 99.9 percent of the time,
this is going to be Internet.
So AF INET is actually
the Internet, which
is what we want.
Then the second argument tells
you if you want TCP or UDP.
We want TCP, so I'm going
to type socket.SOCK_STREAM.
There we go. So now
ms is the socket,
so I have created the socket.
Now, what I want
this socket to do,
what I want do in the socket is,
I want to send something.
I want to make a
connection on this socket,
and of course it's still
the same machine, right?
So both the server
that's running on
the bottom screen is
on the same Raspberry Pi.
So I'm going make a established
a connection on this socket
from the Raspberry Pi to
the Raspberry Pi really
between the two processes.
So the process running on
the top window which is doing
the sending and
the processes running in
the bottom window which is
listening to PuTTY one,
two, three, four, we
want to make a connection
between those two.
So to establish a connection
you call ms.connect.
Now, ms.connect it
needs an address.
What am I connecting to? Now,
remember on the Internet,
the address has two ports.
The IP address, which tells
you which machine
you're running on,
and then the port number which
tells you which process
on that machine.
Now the port number is going
to be one, two, three, four.
The IP address for us is
not going to be
the Raspberry Pi's IP address.
When you're talking to yourself
or when a machine is
talking to itself,
there's a particular IP address
that you always use
called a loopback
address and it is 127.0.0.1.
Whenever you use
that address, it means that
the machine is sending
a message to itself.
Just another process
on the same machine.
So that's what we're doing here.
So that's what we're going
to use for the IP address.
Now note, we can send
to any machine with
any IP address because
we can just fill
in a different IP address here,
but since we're doing
it on the same machine,
we just use
this loopback address.
Now, ms.connects actually
takes one argument which is
a tuple of the IP address
and the port number.
So let's just give it that
127.0.0.1, and then 1234.
So ms.connect is taking
one argument, which is a tuple.
The tuple contains
the IP address string
which is the IP address
and the port number.
So we connect then and
there is a connection.
Now, we haven't seen
anything happened
because I haven't sent anything
on his connection yet,
but that's connection.
So now I'm going
to send something,
and I'm going to use the
send all method rather.
For this, I want to send
a string hello world
something like that.
Now, send all takes an argument.
It doesn't take
a string argument,
it takes a byte array argument,
which is very
similar to a string.
It's a slight
generalization of a string,
but the only difference from
our point of view that we put
a b in front of the string.
So maybe hello world,
let's say and we send it now.
When I hit Enter,
I should see something appear in
the bottom screen, right?
You should finally
receive something.
So it worked, right?
I can send any number of texts.
I could say, Hello again,
like that and hit
Enter, sends it again.
So that's it.
I can do that all
day if I feel like.
So that is pretty
simple. Thank you.